Welcome back so far we've talked about Honey I shrunk the files reducing the size of those downloads
by compressing images magnifying CSX and Javascript and so on.
But there's a more fundamental approach in addition to just reducing download size.
Let's also consider reducing download frequency the traveling delivery man see reducing the number of
components that a page requires proportionally reduces the number of TTP requests it has to make.
This doesn't mean emitting content it just means structuring it more efficiently.
Remember our traveling delivery man gets tired and there's only one of them.
So let's have a look here.
With less trips ideally while we're minimizing our files but also we're not sending every single file
down the wire.
Only the ones that we need.
How can we do this.
Well for example if you're using bootstrap or foundation or anything that helps you with your UI and
adds new CSSA files ask yourself Are they really necessary or could you use fluxbox or she says grid
which are superb alternatives and they're both native.
You don't have to download those massive boot strap or Fondation files.
Same with javascript and Javascript libraries they're really convenient but not always necessary take
Jake queery for example element selection which is why J query was initially so popular has been greatly
simplified thanks to new methods in javascript like Querrey selector ng query selects are all.
And we even have event binding made easy with ADD and listener class list set attributes so on and so
forth.
So if you must use a library find maybe libraries that are lightweight and think twice before you just
pile on another script or another library just for some cool animations on your website.
Finally with images.
Be careful and don't make your web site just full of them.
In the past we had some things like sprites where you had one image and based on CSSA positioning you
can have on this one image multiple images that get only displayed based on the CSSA you use but you
get the gist rate just have less files and don't make the delivery man work so hard.
Now you must be asking yourself can't we just tell them to carry all the files at once.
But what's the big deal.
Once again life isn't that simple.
Thanks to the DB protocol our browsers will only simultaneously download a set maximum number of files
from one domain at a time.
And this ranges from 2 to 6 depending on your browser.
And I'll leave a resource for you in this video so you can see how many Max requests or Max concurrent
requests your browser can make.
But again be careful.
It also has limits on the total size it can carry.
The delivery man isn't Superman.
So again we want to minimize files and we want to limit the strips that the delivery man makes.
So perhaps we can combine our CSSA files into one.
Combine our javascript files into one we'll talk about a beat to an upcoming video and why this process
might get improved in the future.
But for now let's review.
When we open up Google Chrome and we type in super fresh dotcom we request from the server a few things
but knowing what we just learned we can optimize this process right.
We can minimize our files and then we can also limit the number of files that we deliver
and using just the simple methods.
You've already made your web side tremendously faster.
Now don't worry there's still a lot more to go through and things are going to get even more fun.
Just to make sure that we've really learned these concepts.
I have a fun little exercise for you.
So I'll see on that one.